    In 1980's Networks where just an academic curiosity, 
    In 1988 Networks where used by large Universities and large Businesses.
    In 1966 Networks specially the internet, had become a daily reality for a 
    millions of people.
    In 2003 Wireless Networks and mobile computers had become commonplace for
    accessing the web and the internet.
    In 2011 Networks are about content distribution (especially videos using 
    CDNs and peer to peer networks) and mobile phones are small computers on
    the internet. 
new material on
    * Wireless networks(802.12 and 802.16)
    * The 3G networks used by smart phones
    * RFID and sensor networks
    * Content distribution using CDNs
    * Peer-to-peer networks
    * Real-time media (from stored, streaming, and live sources)
    * Internet telephony (voice over IP)
    * Delay-tolerant networks

    Each of the past three centuries have been dominated by a single new
    technology.
    The merging of computers and communications has had a profound influence on 
    the way computer systems are organized. The once-dominant concept of the 
    "computer center" as a room with a large computer to which users bring their
    for processing is now totally obsolete (although data centers holding 
    thousands of Internet servers are becoming common.) The old model of a single
    computer serving all of the organization's computational needs has been 
    replaced by one in which a large number of seperate but interconnected 
    computers do the job. These systems are called computer networks.

    "Computer Network" means a collection of autonomous computers interconnected
    by a single technology. Two computers are said to be interconnected if they
    are able to exchange information. The connection need not be via a copper 
    wire; fibre optics, microwaves, infrared, and communication satellites can 
    also be used. Networks come in many sizes, shapes and forms, as we will see 
    later. They are usually connected together to make larger networks, with the
    Internet being the most well-known example of a network of networks.

    There is considerable confusion in the literature between a computer network
    and a distributed system.The key distinction is that in a distributed system,
    a collection of independent computers appears to its users as a single 
    coherent system. Usually, it has a single model of paradigm that it presents 
    to the users. Often a layer of software on top of the operating system, 
    called MIDDLEWARE , is responsible for implementing this model. A well-known
    example of a distributed system is the World Wide Web. It runs on top of the 
    Internet and presents a model in which everything looks like a document
    (Web page).

    In a computer network, this coherence, model, and software are absent.Users
    are exposed to the actual machines, without any attempt by the system to 
    make this machines look and act in a coherent way. If the machines have 
    different hardware and different operating systems, that is fully visible to 
    the users. If a user wants to run a program on a remote machine, he has to 
    log onto that machine and run it there.

    In effect , a distributed system is a software system built on top of a 
    network. The software gives it a high degree of cohesiveness and transparency.
    Thus, the distinction between a network and a distributed system lies with
    the software(especially the operating system), rather than with the hardware.

    Nevertheless, there is considerable overlap between the two subjects. 
    For example, both distributed systems and computer networks need to move files
    around. The difference lies in who invokes the movement, the system or the
    user.
USES OF COMPUTER NEWORKS
1.1.1 Business Applications
        The main aim is for resource sharing, information sharing , (one version
        of this is VPN which is used to join the individual networks at different 
        sites into one extended network.)
        client server model, Web application, communication medium(for people) ,
        electronic mail, IP telephony or Voice over IP(VoIP) , Video can be added to 
        audio so that employees at distant locations can see and hear each other as
        they hold a meeting. Desktop sharing lets remote workers see and interact
        with a graphical computer screen. This makes it easy for two or more people
        who work far apart to read and write a shared black-board or write a report
        together.When one worker makes a change to an online document, the others 
        can see the change immediately , instead of waiting several days for a letter.
        Such a speedup makes cooperation among far-flung groups of people easy where
        it previously had been impossible. More ambitious forms of remote coordination
        such as telemedicine are only now starting to be used(e.g., remote patient
        monitoring ) but may become much more important. It is sometimes said that
        communication and transportation are havin a race, and whichever wins will
        make the other obsolete.
        A third goal for many companies is doing business electronically, 
        especially with custormers and suppliers. This new model is called e-commerce
        (electronic commerce) and it has grown rapidly in recent years. Airlines, 
        bookstores, and other retailers have discovered that many customers like
        the convenience of shopping from home. Consequently, many companies provide
        catalogs of their goods and services online and take orders online. 
        Manufacturers of automobiles, air - craft , and computers, among others ,
        buy subsystems from a variety of suppliers and then assemble the parts .
        Using computer networks, manufacturers can place orders electronically as
        needed. This reduces the need for large inventories and enhance efficiency.
1.1.2 Home Applications
        In 1977, Ken Olsen was president of the Digital Equipment Corporation,then
        the number two computer vendor in the world (after IBM). When asked why
        Digital was not going after the personal computer market in a big way, 
        he said: "There is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his
        home." History showed otherwise and Digital no longer exists. People 
        initially bought computers for word processing and games. Recently , the
        biggesr reason to buy a home computer was probably for Internet access. 
        Now , many consumer electronic devices , such as set-top boxes , game
        consoles , and clock radios, come with embedded computers and computer 
        networks, especially wireless networks, and home networks are broadly used
        for entertainment, including listening to, looking at, and creating music,
        photos, and videos.
    CLIENT SERVER COMMUNICATION
        Internet access provides home users with connectivity to remote computers.
        As with companies, home users can access information, communicate with
        other people, and buy products and services with e-commerce. The main
        benefit now comes from connecting outside of the home. Bob Metcalfe, the
        inventor of Ethernet, hypothesized that the value of a network is propot-
        ional to the square of the number of users because this is roughly the 
        number of different connections that may be made(Gilder, 1993). This 
        hypothesis is known as "Metcalfe's law." It helps to explain how the 
        tremendous popularity of the Internet comes from its size.

        There are many types of information on the remote servers, like surfing
        the web, online  news which can be customized. online journals and many
        more.

        Much of this information is based on client server model, but there is 
        different , popular model for accessing information that goes by the name
        of peer-to-peer communication.
    PEER TO PEER COMMUNICATION
        In this form , individuals who form a loose group can communicate with others 
        in the group. Every person can , in principle, communicate with one or more 
        other people; there is no fixed division into clients and servers.

        Many peer-to-peer systems, such BitTorrent(Cohen, 2003) , do not have any central
        database of content . Instead , each user maintains his own database locally and
        provide a list of other nearby people who are members of the system. A new user
        can then go to any existing member to see what he has and get the names of other 
        members to inspect for more content and more names. This lookup process can be 
        repeated indefinitely to build up a large local database of what is out there.
        It is an activity that would get tedious for people but computers excel at it.

        Peer-to-Peer communication is often used to share music and videos.It really 
        hit the big time around 2000 with a music sharing service called Napster that
        was shut down after what was propably the biggest copyright infringement case
        in all of recorded history. Legal applications for peer to peer communication
        also exists . These include fans sharing public domain music, families,sharing
        photos and movies, and users downloading public software packages. In fact, 
        one of the most popular Internet applications of all, email , is inherently 
        peer to peer. This form of communication is likely to grow considerably in 
        the future.
    PERSON TO PERSON COMMUNICATION
        peer to peer applications involve interactions between a person and a remote
        database full of information. but person to person involves direct interaction
        between a person and another person not remote database full of information.
        Basically  the 21st century's answer to the 19th century's telephone. E-mail
        is already used on a daily basis by millions of people all over the world and
        it's use is growing rapidly. It already routinely contains audio and video as 
        well as text and pictures. 
        Instant messaging, Twitter, audio(e.g., Internet radio stations) and video
        (eg , Youtube). Online classes,social network applications-here flow of info
        is driven by the relationship that people declare between each other.like
        Facebook, orkut, Myspace, etc.
        Even more loosely , groups of people can work together to create content. A
        wiki, for example,is a collaborative Web site that the members of a community
        edit. The most famous wiki is the Wikipedia, an encyclopedia anyone can edit,
        but there are thousands of other wikis.
        Some of these forms of e-commerce have aquired cute little tags based on the
        fact that "to" and "2" are pronounced the same. The most popular ones are:-
            Tag    |     Full name                | Example
            B2C    | Business-to-Consumer         | Ordering books online
            B2B    | Business-to-Business         | Car manufacturer ordering tires from supplier
            G2C    | Government-to-Consumer       | Government distributing tax forms electronically
            C2C    | Consumer-to-Consumer         | Auctioning second-hand products online
            P2P    | Peer-to-Peer                 | Music sharing
    ENTERTAINMENT
        This had made huge strides in the home in recent years, with the distribution of 
        music , redio and television programs, and movies over the internet beginning to
        rival that of traditional mechanims. Users can find, buy, and download MP3 songs
        and DVD-quality movies and add them to their personal collection. TV shows now 
        reach many homes via IPTV(IP Television) systems that are based on IP technology 
        instead of cable TV or radio transmissions. Media streaming applications lets
        users tune into Internet radio stations or watch recent episodes of their favorite
        TV shows. Naturally, all of this content can be moved around your house between 
        different devices, displays and speakers , usually with a wireless network.
        Another form of entertainment is game playing. Already we have multiperson real-
        time simulation games, like hide-and-seek in a virtual dungeon, and flight
        simulators with the players on one team trying to shoot down the players on the 
        opposing team. Virtual worlds provide a persistent setting in which thousands 
        of users can experience a shared reality with three-dimensional graphics.
    UBIQUITOUS COMPUTING
        computer is embedded into everyday life, as in the vision of Mark Weiser(1991). 
        Many homes are already wired with security systems that include door and window
        sensors, and there are many more sensors that can be folded in to a smart home
        monitor, such as energy consumption. Your electricity , gas and water meters
        could also report usage over the network. This would save money as there would 
        be no need to send out meter readers. And your smoke detectors could call the
        fire department instead of making a big noise (which has little value if no one
        is home). As the cost of sensing and communcation drops , more and more measurement and reporting will be done with networks.
        Increasingly , consumer devices are networked. For example, some high-end cameras
        already have a wireless network capability and use it to send photos to a 
        nearby display for viewing. Professional sports photographers can also send
        their photos  to their editors  in real-time, first wirelessly to an access
        point then over the Internet. Devices such as television that plug into the
        wall can use power-line-networks to send information throughout the house over
        the wires that carry electricity. It may not be very surprising to have these
        objects on the network, but objects that we do not think of as computers may
        sense and communicate information too. For example , your shower may record
        water usage, give you visual feedback while you lather up, and report to a
        home environmental monitoring application when you are done to help save on your water bill.
        A technology called RFID (Radio Frequency IDentification) will push this idea
        ever further in the future. RFID tags are passive(i.e. , have no battery) chips
        the size of stamps and they can already be affixed to books, passports, pets,
        credit cards, and other items in the home and out. This lets RFID readers 
        locate and communicate with the items in the home and out. This lets RFID readers
        locate and communicate with the items over a distance of up to several meters,
        depending on the kind of RFID, Originally , RFID was commercialized to replace
        barcodes, It has not succeeded yet because barcodes are free and RFID tags cost
        a few cents. Of course, RFID tags offer much more and their price is rapidly
        declining. They may turn the real world into the Internet of things (ITU, 2005).
1.1.3 Mobile Users

        Mobile computers, such as laptop and handheld computers, are one of the fastest
        -growing segments of the computer industry. The sales have already overtaken 
        those of desktop computers.

        Connectivity to the Internet enables many of these mobile uses. Since having a
        wired connection is impossible in cars, boats, and airplanes, there is a lot of
        interest in wireless networks. Cellular networks operated by the telephone
        companies are one familiar kind of wireless network that blankets us with
        coverage for mobile phones. Wireless hotspots based on the 802.11 standard are
        another kind of wireless network for mobile computers. They have sprung up
        everywhere that people go, resulting in a patchwork of coverage at cafes, hotels
        airports, schools , trains and planes. Anyone with a laptop computer and a
        wireless modem can just turn on their computer on and be connected to the 
        Internet through the hotspot, as though the computer were plugged into a wired
        network.

        Wireless networks are of great value to automobile industry ,and military as 
        well. It is provides a better connectivity with the client.

        Although wireless networking and mobile computing are often related, they are
        not identical. Here we see a distinction between fixed wireless and mobile
        wireless networks. Even notebook computer into the wired network jack in a
        hotel room, he has mobility without a wireless network.

        Wireless  | Mobile  | Typical applications
        No        | No      | Desktop computers in offices
        No        | Yes     | A notebook computer used in a hotel room
        Yes       | No      | Networks in unwired buildings
        Yes       | Yes     | Store inventory with a handheld computer

        Perhaps the key driver of mobile, wireless applications is the mobile phone. Text 
        messaging or texting is tremendously popular. It lets a mobile phone user type a
        short message that is then delivered by the cellular network to another mobile 
        subscriber. Few people would have predicted ten years ago that having teenagers 
        tediously typing short text messages on mobile phones would be an immense money
        maker for telephone companies . But texting(osr Short Message Service as it is known
        outside the U.S.) is very profitable since it costs the carrier but a tiny fraction
        of one cent to relay a text message, a service for which they charge far more.

        The long awaited convergence of telephones and the internet has finally arrived,and
        it will accelerate the growth of mobile applications. Smart phones, such as the 
        popular iPhone, combine aspects of mobile phones and mobile computers. The (3G and
        4G) cellular networks to which they connect can provide fast data services for 
        using the internet as well as handling phone calls. Many advanced phones connect to 
        wireless hotspots too, and automatically switch between networks to choose the best
        option for the user.

        Other consumer electronic devices can also use cellular and hotspot networks to
        stay connected to remote computers. Electronic book readers can download a newly 
        purchased book or the next edition of a magazine or today's newspaper wherever 
        they roam. Electronic picture frames can update their displays on cue with fresh images.

        Since mobile phones know their locations, often because they are equipped with
        GPS( Global Positioning System) receivers, some services aare intentionally 
        location dependent. Moblie maps and directions are an  obvious candidate as your 
        GPS-enabled phone and car probably have a better idea of where you are than you
        do. So, too, are searches for a nearby bookstore or Chinese restaurent, or a local
        weather forecast. Other services may record location , such as annotating photos
        and video with the place at which they were made. This annotation is known as "geo-tagging."

        An area in which mobile phones are now starting to be used is m-commerce(mobile-commerce)
        (Senn, 2000). Short text messages from the mobile are used to authorize payments for 
        food in vending machines, movie tickets, and other small items instead of cash and
        credit cards. The charge then appears on the mobile phone bill. When equipped with
        NFC (Near Field Communication) technology the mobile can act as an RFID smartcard and
        interact with a nearby reader for payment. The driving forces behind this phenomenon
        are the mobile device makers and network operators, who are trying hard to figure out
        how to get a piece of the e-commerce pie. From the store's point of view, this scheme
        may save them most of the credit card company's fee, which can be several percent.
   
        One huge thing that m-commerce has going for it is that mobile phones users are
        accustomed to paying for everything (in contrast to Internet users, who expect
        everything to be free). If an Internet Web site charged a fee to allow its 
        customers to pay by credit card, there would be an immense howling noise from
        the users. If however, a mobile phone operator its customers to pay for items 
        in a store by waving the phone at the cash register  and then tacked a fee for
        this convenience, it would probably be accepted as normal. Time will tell.

    Sensor Networking
        No doubt the uses of mobile and wireless computers will grow rapidly in the future
        as the size of computers shrinks, probably in ways no one can now foresee. Let us
        take a quick look at some possibilities. Sensor networks are made up of nodes that
        gather and wirelessly relay information they sense about the state of the physical
        world. The nodes may be part of familiar items such as cars or phones, or they may
        be small separate devices. For example, your car might gather data on its location,
        speed, vibration, and fuel efficiency from its on-board diagnostic system and 
        upload this information to a database(Hull et al. 2006). Those data can help find
        potholes, plan trips around congested roads, and tell you if you are "gas guzzler"
        compared to other drivers on the same strech of road.

        Sensors networks are revolutionizing science by providing a wealth of data on
        behaviour that could not previously be observed. One example is tracking the 
        migration of individual zebras by placing a small sensor on each animal(Juang et
        al., 2002). Researchers have packed a wireless computer into a cube 1mm on edge
        (Warneke et al. 2001). With mobile computers this small, even small birds ,rodents,
        and insects can be tracked.

    Wearable computers 
        wearable computers are another promising application. Smart watches with radios 
        have been part of our mental space since their appearance in the Dick Tracy comic
        strip in 1946; now you can buy them. Other such devices may be implanted , such as
        pacemakers and insulin pumps. Some of these can be controlled over a wireless 
        network. This lets doctors test and reconfigure them more easily . It could also
        lead to some nasty problems if the devices are as insecure as the average PC and
        can be hacked easily (Halperin et al. 2008). 

1.1.4 Social Issues
    SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
    
        Computer networks, like the printing press 500 years ago, allow ordinary citizens
        to distribute and view content in ways that were not previously possible. But 
        along with the good comes the bad, as this new-found freedom brings with it many
        unsolved social, political , and ethical issues.

        Social networks ,message boards, content sharing sites, and a host of other applications
        allow people to share their views with like-minded individuals. As long as the subjects
        are restricted to technical topics or hobbies like gardening, not too many problems will arise.

        The trouble comes with the topics that people actually care about, like politics, religion
        or sex. Views that are publicly posted may be deeply offensive to some people. Worse yet, 
        they may not be politically correct. Furthermore, opinions need not be limited to text; 
        high-resolution color photographs and video clips are easily shared over computer networks.
        Some people take a live-and-let-live view, but others feel that posting certain material 
        ( eg , verbal attacks on particular countries or religions, pornography , etc.) is simply
        unacceptable and that such content must be censored. Different countries have different and
        conflicting laws in this area. Thus , the debate rages.
    
    FAIRNESS (NET NEUTRALITY)
    
        In the past, people have sued network operators, claiming that they are responsible for the
        contents of what carry, just as newspapers and magazines are. The inevitable response is 
        that a network is like a telephone company or the post office and cannot be expected to 
        police what its users say.    
    
        It should now come only as a slight surprise to learn that some network operators block content
        for their own reasons. Some users of peer-to-peer applications had their network service cut off
        because the network operators did not find it profitable to carry the large amounts of traffic 
        sent by those applications. Those same operators would probably like to treat different companies
        differently. If you are a big company and pay well then you get good service, 
        but if you are a small-time player, you get
        poor services. Opponents of this practice argue that peer-to-peer and other content should be
        treated in the same way because they are all just bits to the network. This argument for communications
        that are not differentiated by their content of source or who is providing the content is known as
        network neutrality( Wu, 2003). It is probably safe to say that will go on for a while.
    
        Many other parties are involved in the tussle over content. For instance, pirated music and movies 
        fueled the massive growth of peer-to-peer networks, which did not please the copyright holders who
        have threatened (and sometimes taken) legal action. There are now automated systems that search peer
        -to-peer networks and fire off warnings to network operators and users who are suspected of infringing
        copyright. In the United States, these warnings are known as DMCA takedown notices after the 
        Digital Millennium Copyright Act. This search is an arms' race because it is hard to reliably catch
        copyright infringement. Even your printer might be mistaken for a culprit(Piatek et al. 2008).
    
        Computer networks make it very easy to communicate. They also make it easy  to communicate. They also
        make it easy for the people who run the network to snoop on the traffic. This sets up conflicts over
        issues over issues such as employee rights versus employer rights. Many people read and write email at
        work. Many employers have claimed the right to read and possibly censor employee messages, including
        messages sent from a home computer outside working hours. Not all employees agree with this, especially
        the later part.

    PRIVACY
        Another conflict is centered around government versus citizen's rights. The FBI has installed systems 
        at many Internet service providers to snoop on all incoming and outgoing email for nuggets of interest.
        One early system was originally called Carnivore, but bad publicity caused it to be renamed to the more
        innocent-sounding DCS1000 . The goal of such system is to spy on millions of people in the hope of 
        perhaps finding information about illegal activities. Unfortunately for the spies , without a search 
        warrant, but the government often ignores it.
    
        Of course, the government does not have a monopoly on threatening people's privacy. The private sector
        does it bit too by profiling users. For example, small files called cookies that Web browsers store on
        users computers allow companies to track users activities in cyberspace and may also allow credit card
        numbers , social security numbers, and other confidential information to leak all over the internet(Berghel, 2001).
        Companies that provide Web-based services may maintain large amounts of personal information about their
        users that allows them to study user activities directly. For example, Google can read your email
        and show you advertisements based on your interests if you use it email service, Gmail.
    
        A new twist with the mobile device is location privacy(Beresford and Stajano, 2003). As part of the process of
        providing service to your mobile device the network operators learn where you are at different times of day. 
        This allows them to track your movements. They may know which nightclub you frequent and which medical center you visit.
    
        Computer networks also offer the potential to increase privacy by sending anonymous messages. In some situations,
        this capability may be desirable. Beyond preventing companies from learning your habits, it provides, for example,
        a way for students, soldiers , employees, and citizens to blow the whistle on illegal behaviour on the part of
        professorss, officers, superiors, and politicians without fear of reprisals. On the other hand, in the United States
        and most other democracies, the law specifically permits an accused person the right to confront and challenge
        his accuser in court so anonymous accusations cannot be used as evidence.

    INFORMATION QUALITY
        The Internet makes it possible to find it possibel to find information quickly , but a great deal of it is ill
        considered , misleading , or downright wrong. That medical advice you plucked from the Internet about the pain
        in your chest may have come from a Nobel Prize winner of from a high-school dropout.
    
        Other information is frequently unwanted. Electronic junk mail(spam) has become a part of life because spammers 
        have collected millions of email addresses and would-be marketers can cheaply send computer-generated messages 
        to them. The resulting flood of spam rivals the flow messages from real people. Fortunately , filtering  software
        is able to read and discard the spam generated by other computers, with lesser or greater degrees of success.

    CRIMINAL BEHAVIOUR ( CRACKER)     
        Still other content is intended for criminal behaviour. Web pages and email messages containing active
        content( basically , programs or macros that execute on the receiver's machine) can contain viruses
        that take over your computer. They might be used to steal your bank account password, or to have your
        computer send spam as part of a botnet of pool of compromised machines.

        Phising messages masquerade as originating from a trustworthy party, for example , your bank, to try
        to trick you into revealing sensitive information, for example, credit card numbers. Identity theft is
        becoming a serious problem as thieves collect enough information about a victim to obtain credit cards
        and other documents in the victim's name.

        It can be difficult to prevent computers from impersonating people on the Internet. This problem has 
        led to the development of CAPTCHAs, in which a computer asks a person to solve a short recognition task,
        for example , typing in the letters shown in a distorted image, to show that they are human (von Ahn, 2001).
        This process is a variation on the famous Turing test in which a person asks questions over a network to
        judge whether the entity responding is human.

        A lot of these problems could be solved if the computer industry took computer security seriously. If all
        messsages were encrypted and authenticated , it would be harder to commit mischief. Such technology is well
        developed under Crytography. The problem is that  hardware and software vendors know that putting in 
        security features costs money and their customers are not demanding such features. In addition , a
        substantial number of the problems are caused by buggy software which occurs because vendors keep adding
        more and more features to their programs, which inevitably means more code and thus more bugs. A tax on 
        new features might help, but that might be a tough sell in some quarters. A refund for defective software
        might be nice, except it would bankrupt the entire industry in the first year.

        Computer networks raise new legal problems when they interact with old laws. Electronics gambling provides an
        example . Computers have been simulating things for decades , so why not simulate slot machines, roulette 
        wheels, blackjack dealers, and more gambling equipment? Well, because it is illegal in a lot of places.
        The trouble is , gambling is legal in a lot of other places(England, for example) and casino owners there
        have grasped the potential for Internet gambling. What happens if the gambler, the casino, and the server
        are all in different countries, with conflicting laws?

1.2 NETWORK HARDWARE
        There is no generally accepted taxonomy into which all computer network fit,but
        two dimensions stands out as important:
    TRANSMISSION TECHNOLOGY
        POINT TO POINT (UNICAST)
        BROADCAST(WHEN BROADCAST TO A SUBSET CALLED MULTICAST)
    SCALE
            interprocessor distance  Processors located in same   Example
            1m                       Square meter                 Personal area network( bluetooth, RFID ,NFC etc)
            10m                      Room--------                
            100m                     Building----                 Local area network( LAN, Wifi aka IEEE 802.11 etc)
            1km                      Campus------                 
            10km                     City                         Metropolitan area network
            100km                    Country*****                 
            1000km                   Continent***                 Wide area network
            10,000km                 Planet                       The internet
        media 
            Wired LANs use a range of different transmission technologies. Most of them use copper
            wires, but some use optical fibres, LANs are restricted in size, which means that the
            worst-case transmission time is bounded and known in advance. Knowing these bounds helps
            with the task of designing network protocols. Typically, wired LANs run at speeds of 
            100 Mbps to 1 Gbps, have low delay(microseconds or nanoseconds), and make very few errors.
            Newer LANs can operate at up to 10 Gbps. Compared to wireless network, wired LANs exceed 
            them in all dimensions of performance. It is just easier to send signals over a wire or
            through a fiber than through air.
            The topology of many wired LANs is built from point-to-point links. IEEE 802.3, popularly
            called Ethernet, is by far the most common type of wired LAN. Each computer speaks the
            Ethernet protocol and connects to a box called a switch with a point-to-point link.Hence
            the name. A switch has multiple ports, each of which can connect to one computer. The job
            of the switch is to relay packets between computers that are attached to it, using the 
            address in each packet to determine which computer to send it to.
            To build larger LANs, swiches can be plugged into each other using their ports. What 
            happens if you plug them together in a loop? Will the network still work? Luckily , the
            designers thought of this case. It is the job of the protocol to sort out what paths 
            packets should travel to safely reach the intended computer.
        virtual LANs 
            It is also possible to divide one large physical LAN into two smaller logical LANs. You
            might wonder why this would be useful. Sometimes , the layout of the network equipment
            does not match the organization's structure. For example, the engineering and finance
            departments of a company might have computers on the same physical LAN because they are
            in the same wing of the building but it might be easier to manage the system if engineering
            and finance logically each had its own network Virtual LAN or VLAN.In this design each 
            port is tagged with a "color" say green for engineering and red for finance. The switch then
            forwards packets so that computers attached to the green ports are seperated from the 
            computers attached to the red ports. Broadcast packets sent on a red port, for example,
            will not be recieved on a green port , just as though there were two different LANs.
        static design
            Both wireless and wired broadcast networks can be divided into static and dyanmic designs,
            depending on how the channel is allocated. A typical static allocation would be to divide
            time into discrete intervals and use a round-robin algorithm, allowing each machine to 
            broadcast only when its time slot comes up. Static allocation wastes channel capacity when
            a machine has nothing to say during its allocated slot, so most systems attempt to allocate
            the channel dynamically (i.e. on demand).
        dynamic design
            Dynamic allocation methods for a common channel are either centralized or decentralized. In
            the centralized channel allocation method, there is a single entity, for example, the base
            station in cellular networks, which determines who goes next. It might do this by accepting
            multitude packets and prioritizing them according to some internal algorithm. In the 
            decentralized channel allocation method, there is no central entity; each machine must
            decide for itself whether to transmit.this might seems like this approach lead to chaos, but
            it does not. alogorithms are designed to bring order out ot the potential chaos.
        era of networked devices
            It is worth spending a little more time discussing LANs in the home. In the future, it is 
            likely that every appliance in the home will be capable of communicating with every other
            appliance, and all of them will be accessible over the Internet.This development is likely
            to be one of those visionary concepts that nobody asked for (like TV remote controls or mobile
            phones), but once they arrived nobody can imagine how they lived without them.
            Many devices are already capable of being networked. These include computers, entertainment
            devices such as TVs and DVDs , phones and other consumer electronics such as cameras, appliances
            like clock radios, and infrastructure like utility meters and thermostats.This  trend will only
            continue.For instance,the average home probably has a dozen of clocks(eg in appliances) , all of
            which could adjust to daylight savings time automatically if the clocks were on Internet. Remote
            monitoring of the home is a likely winner, as many grown children would be willing to spend some
            money to help their aging parents live safely in their own homes.
        demands of customer
            easy to install
                While we could think of the home network as just another LAN, it is more likely to have different
                properties than other networks. First, the networked devices have to be very easy to install. Wireless
                routers are the most returned consumer electronic item. People buy one because they want a wireless
                network at home, find that it does not work "out of the box" , and then return it rather than 
                listen to elevator music while on hold on the technical helpline.
            foolproof in operation
                Second the network and devices have to be foolproof in operation.Air conditioners used to have one
                knob with four settings: OFF, LOW, MEDIUM, and HIGH. Now they have 30-page manuals. Once they are
                networked , expect the chapter on security alone to be 30 pages. This is a problem because only 
                computer users are accustomed to putting up with products that do not work; the car-television-,
                and refrigerator-buying public is far less tolerant. They expect products to work 100% without
                the need to hire a geek. 
            low price
                Third, the low price is essential for success. People will not pay a $50 premium for an internet thermostat
                because few people regard monitoring their home temperature from work that important. For $5 extra,though it might sell
            common peripheral formats
                Fourth, it must be possible to start out with one or two devices and expand the reach of the network
                gradually. This means no format wars. Telling consumers to buy peripherals with IEEE 1394(FireWire)
                interfaces and a few years later retracing that and saying USB 2.0 is the interface-of-the-month and
                then switching that to 802.11g--oops, no, make that 802.11n-I mean 802.16(different wireless networks)
                --is going to make consumers very skittish. The network interface will have to remain stable for decades
                ,like the television broadcasting standards.
            security and reliability
                Fith security and reliability will be very important. Losing a few files to an email virus is one
                thing; having a burglar disarm your security system from his mobile computer and then plunder your 
                house is something quite different.
        wired or wireless?
            An interesting question is whether home networks will be wired or wireless. Convenience and cost favours
            wireless networking because there are no wires to fit, or worse, retrofit. Security favours wired networking
            because the radio waves that wireless networks use are quite good at going through walls. Not everyone is
            overjoyed at the thought of having the neighbors piggybacking on their Internet connection and reading their
            emails.
        power-line-networks
            A third option that may be appealing is to reuse the networks that are already in the home. The obvious
            candidate is the electric wires that are installed throughout the house. Power-line networks let devices
            that plug into outlets broadcast information throughout the house.  You have to plug in the TV anyway,
            and this way it can get Internet connectivity at the same time.The difficulty is how to carry both power
            and data signals at the same time. Part of the answer is that they use different frequency bands.
            
            In short , home LANs offer many oppurtunities and challenges. Most of the latter relate to the need for
            networks to be easy to manage, dependable, and secure, especially in the hands of nontechnical users , as well as low cost.
        METROPOLITAN AREA NETWORK
            antenna to cable
            A MAN(Metropolitan Area Network) covers a city. The best-known example of MANs are the cable television
            networks available in many cities. These systems grew from earlier community antenna systems used in
            areas with poor over-the-air television reception. In those early systems, a large antenna was placed
            on top of a nearby hill and a signal was then piped to the subscribers' houses.
            adhoc to govn supported cable network
    
    

 

